## Applying Font Families via theme.json

When building themes to distribute to others, developers will typically want to apply their registered fonts as defaults.  Much like adding them to the Styles interface in the admin that we covered in the previous lesson, it is possible to do this via `theme.json`. 

Style that are set via `theme.json` actually represent the values shown via the the Styles interface.  Just think of them as a default mapping.  For fonts, this means that the theme author can set up the defaults via JSON code while allowing the user to override with their preferred choice in the editor.

Developers can set the font family at the global (root) level, on specific elements, or on specific blocks.

Before doing that, you need to know the font-family "preset" slug.  Remember when you first registered the the Open Sans family in [Lesson 2](/module-05/02-Font-Registration.md)?  It looked like the following (shortened for clarity):

```json
{
	"name": "Open Sans",
	"slug": "open-sans",
	"fontFamily": "\"Open Sans\", sans-serif",
	"fontFace": []
}
```

Note the `slug` value of `open-sans`.  WordPress takes that value and creates a CSS variable with the name `--wp--preset--font-family--open-sans`.  To set this as the font family elsewhere in `theme.json`, it would look like the following:

```json
"fontFamily": "var( --wp--preset--font-family--open-sans )";
```

**Note:** Because this is a CSS variable, you can also reference it in any additional CSS that your theme has.

Now, let's take what you've learned and use it to set up font families.

## Setting the Global Font Family

All styles set via `theme.json` live under the top-level `styles` key.  Those directly under it apply to the root level of the site (i.e., `<body>` element) and cascade down until a more specific setting overrules them.

The font family style for the root can be set via `styles.typography.fontFamily`.  This accepts any value that would be valid for `font-family` in CSS.

Now, use your Open Sans preset value to set the default font family for all text in the theme:

```json
{
	"version": 2,
	"styles": {
		"typography": {
			"fontFamily": "var( --wp--preset--font-family--open-sans )",
		}
	}
}
```

Remember, this will trickle down to all elements and blocks unless overwritten.

## Setting an Element's Font Family

If you wanted to set a custom font family for one of the WordPress-supported HTML elements, the process is similar.  Individual element styles are objects under `styles.elements`.

Let's say that you wanted to only apply the Open Sans font to heading elements.  You would target `styles.elements.heading`, as shown in the following code snippet:

```json
{
	"version": 2,
	"styles": {
		"elements": {
			"heading": {
				"typography": {
					"fontFamily": "var( --wp--preset--font-family--open-sans )",
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
```

## Setting a Block's Font Family

Like elements, theme authors can also style specific blocks.  Block styles live under `styles.blocks` in `theme.json`.

To target a block, you need to know its namespace and slug.  All blocks bundled with core WordPress have the `core` namespace.  The slug is typically a hyphenated version of its label.  So, the Quote block becomes `core/quote`.

Now try adding the Open Sans family to the Quote block:

```json
{
	"version": 2,
	"styles": {
		"blocks": {
			"core/quote": {
				"typography": {
					"fontFamily": "var( --wp--preset--font-family--open-sans )",
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
```

## Putting It All Together 

Let's pretend that you wanted to use your registered Open Sans font family for all text but wanted something different for heading elements and Quote blocks.  For those, you found a nice serif, such as Playfair Display, and registered it with a slug of `playfair-display`.

The following is what the styles would look like in `theme.json`:

```json
{
	"version": 2,
	"styles": {
		"typography": {
			"fontFamily": "var( --wp--preset--font-family--open-sans )",
		},
		"elements": {
			"heading": {
				"typography": {
					"fontFamily": "var( --wp--preset--font-family--playfair-display )",
				}
			}
		},
		"blocks": {
			"core/quote": {
				"typography": {
					"fontFamily": "var( --wp--preset--font-family--playfair-display )",
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
```
